# Install a Ruby version manager

It is possible to install Ruby itself as a standalone package, but this creates _a small_ problem: It common to have multiple projects that require different versions of Ruby.

_To the rescue [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv)_

You can install rbenv by running

`$ brew install rbenv`

**We're not done though!**

We still need to do two things:

1. Configure your shell to work with rbenv
2. Install a version of Ruby

# rbenv init

In order to make `$ ruby` do different things depending on what directory you are in `rbenv` provides a command that outputs autogenerated bash code.

Have a look yourself! - `$ rbenv init -`

This is great but you will want to get bash to execute that code, in your current session.

There is a man page for bash builtins `man builtins`, you can also find zsh builtin extensions in `man zshbuiltins`. 

For now we're only interested in `eval`, which comes from the core bash builtins.

**Combining eval with another command**

`$ eval "$(rbenv init -)"`

You don't need to fully understand this yet, but to break it down:

* The parenthesis creates a subshell to run a command
* The **$** does Command Expansion, which will turn the output of the subshell from output into literal commands
* The double-quotes will convert the output of the expanded subshell into a single parameter for eval

**We're not done yet!**

Running `$ eval "$(rebenv init -)"` will work, but it isn't persistent. 

We want it to run automatically every time we restart our machines and open a Terminal.

There's a useful file `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bash_profile` that contains commands that are run automatically.

Go ahead and add the command to the bottom of `~/.zshrc`!

If you make changes to this file, you can reload it by running

`$ source ~/.zshrc`

## Stop and understand

Phew! That was a lot.

* What does `~` mean in a path?
* What does source do? Is it a command or a builtin?

## To Do

* Install rbenv
* Add rbenv to your zshrc file

